README.md, before:

# DXX Switch

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aagallag/DXX-Switch.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aagallag/DXX-Switch)

A Nintendo Switch port of Descent I & Descent II.  This is a fork of [DXX-Retro](https://github.com/CDarrow/DXX-Retro), which is a fork of [DXX-Rebirth](https://github.com/dxx-rebirth/dxx-rebirth), which is a fork of the original engine source code created by Parallax Software Corporation.

## Install instructions
### D1X Switch
- Create a folder on your sdcard, such as `/switch/d1x-switch/`.
- Copy `d1x-switch.nro` and `descent.cfg` to this directory.  [Download the latest release here.](https://github.com/aagallag/DXX-Switch/releases)
- Copy `descent.hog` and `descent.pig` to the same directory.  These files are included with a purchase of the game.  Tested with [Descent I from Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/273570/Descent/).

### D2X Switch
- Create a folder on your sdcard, such as `/switch/d2x-switch/`.
- Copy `d2x-switch.nro` and `descent.cfg` to this directory.  [Download the latest release here.](https://github.com/aagallag/DXX-Switch/releases)
- Copy `descent2.ham`, `descent2.hog`, `descent2.s22`, and all `*.pig` files to the same directory.  These files are included with a purchase of the game.  Tested with [Descent II from Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/273580/Descent_2/).

## Known issues and missing features
- Multiple save files don't work (currently hardcoded to `player.plr`)
- Doesn't support the joysticks
- No music
- Only tested with the Descent files from Steam; GOG and CD-ROM releases have not been tested
- Doesn't utilize 1080p resolution when docked
- Need an icon
- Resize the text for larger resolutions (Bug only on D1X Switch)
- Enable the original HUD
- Network/Multiplayer is not enabled
- Level Selection menu doesn't work (no way to input a different level)

## Compile instructions

### Dependencies
- [devkitPro/libnx](https://devkitpro.org/wiki/devkitPro_pacman)

### Linux Compile Instructions

You will likely need these Linux package dependencies to compile the SDL pacman packages(`libarchive-tools curl autoconf`). Debian/Ubuntu install instructions provided:
```
sudo apt install libarchive-tools curl autoconf bsdtar patch
```

And the following Pacman dependencies are required:
```
sudo pacman -Syu switch-dev switch-pkg-config devkitpro-pkgbuild-helpers switch-libvorbisidec switch-libmikmod switch-flac switch-libogg
```

#### Option 1: Install pre-compiled SDL and SDL_mixer (Easier)
```
wget https://github.com/aagallag/pacman-packages/releases/download/v1.0/switch-sdl-1.2.15-1-any.pkg.tar.xz
sudo pacman -U switch-sdl-1.2.15-1-any.pkg.tar.xz
wget https://github.com/aagallag/pacman-packages/releases/download/v1.0/switch-sdl_mixer-1.2.12-2-any.pkg.tar.xz
sudo pacman -U switch-sdl_mixer-1.2.12-2-any.pkg.tar.xz
```

#### Option 2: Compile/Install SDL and SDL_mixer manually
```
git clone git@github.com:aagallag/pacman-packages.git -b switch-sdl-1.2_aagallag
cd pacman-packages/
cd switch/SDL/
/opt/devkitpro/pacman/bin/makepkg
sudo pacman -U switch-sdl-1.2.15-1-any.pkg.tar.xz
cd ../SDL_mixer
/opt/devkitpro/pacman/bin/makepkg
sudo pacman -U switch-sdl_mixer-1.2.12-2-any.pkg.tar.xz
```

#### Compile DXX Switch.
```
git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:aagallag/DXX-Switch.git
cd DXX-Switch/
make
```

## License
See [COPYING.txt](COPYING.txt)

Commit message:

Switch to more stable version of libphysfs

README.md, after:

# DXX Switch

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aagallag/DXX-Switch.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aagallag/DXX-Switch)

A Nintendo Switch port of Descent I & Descent II.  This is a fork of [DXX-Retro](https://github.com/CDarrow/DXX-Retro), which is a fork of [DXX-Rebirth](https://github.com/dxx-rebirth/dxx-rebirth), which is a fork of the original engine source code created by Parallax Software Corporation.

## Install instructions
### D1X Switch
- Create a folder on your sdcard, such as `/switch/d1x-switch/`.
- Copy `d1x-switch.nro` and `descent.cfg` to this directory.  [Download the latest release here.](https://github.com/aagallag/DXX-Switch/releases)
- Copy `descent.hog` and `descent.pig` to the same directory.  These files are included with a purchase of the game.  Tested with [Descent I from Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/273570/Descent/).

### D2X Switch
- Create a folder on your sdcard, such as `/switch/d2x-switch/`.
- Copy `d2x-switch.nro` and `descent.cfg` to this directory.  [Download the latest release here.](https://github.com/aagallag/DXX-Switch/releases)
- Copy `descent2.ham`, `descent2.hog`, `descent2.s22`, and all `*.pig` files to the same directory.  These files are included with a purchase of the game.  Tested with [Descent II from Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/273580/Descent_2/).

## Known issues and missing features
- Multiple save files don't work (currently hardcoded to `player.plr`)
- Doesn't support the joysticks
- No music
- Only tested with the Descent files from Steam; GOG and CD-ROM releases have not been tested
- Doesn't utilize 1080p resolution when docked
- Need an icon
- Resize the text for larger resolutions (Bug only on D1X Switch)
- Enable the original HUD
- Network/Multiplayer is not enabled
- Level Selection menu doesn't work (no way to input a different level)

## Compile instructions

### Dependencies
- [devkitPro/libnx](https://devkitpro.org/wiki/devkitPro_pacman)
- [physfs-switch](https://github.com/carstene1ns/physfs-switch)

### Linux Compile Instructions

You will likely need these Linux package dependencies to compile the SDL pacman packages(`libarchive-tools curl autoconf`). Debian/Ubuntu install instructions provided:
```
sudo apt install libarchive-tools curl autoconf bsdtar patch
```

And the following Pacman dependencies are required:
```
sudo pacman -Syu switch-dev switch-pkg-config devkitpro-pkgbuild-helpers switch-libvorbisidec switch-libmikmod switch-flac switch-libogg
```

#### Install libphysfs for libnx
Follow instructions from [physfs-switch](https://github.com/carstene1ns/physfs-switch) repo page.

#### Option 1: Install pre-compiled SDL and SDL_mixer (Easier)
```
wget https://github.com/aagallag/pacman-packages/releases/download/v1.0/switch-sdl-1.2.15-1-any.pkg.tar.xz
sudo pacman -U switch-sdl-1.2.15-1-any.pkg.tar.xz
wget https://github.com/aagallag/pacman-packages/releases/download/v1.0/switch-sdl_mixer-1.2.12-2-any.pkg.tar.xz
sudo pacman -U switch-sdl_mixer-1.2.12-2-any.pkg.tar.xz
```

#### Option 2: Compile/Install SDL and SDL_mixer manually
```
git clone git@github.com:aagallag/pacman-packages.git -b switch-sdl-1.2_aagallag
cd pacman-packages/
cd switch/SDL/
/opt/devkitpro/pacman/bin/makepkg
sudo pacman -U switch-sdl-1.2.15-1-any.pkg.tar.xz
cd ../SDL_mixer
/opt/devkitpro/pacman/bin/makepkg
sudo pacman -U switch-sdl_mixer-1.2.12-2-any.pkg.tar.xz
```

#### Compile DXX Switch.
```
git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:aagallag/DXX-Switch.git
cd DXX-Switch/
make
```

## License
See [COPYING.txt](COPYING.txt)
